Welcome to this module offering
an overview of managed
applications. Hello, my name is
David Starr, and in this module
we're going to walk through the
fundamentals of managed
applications and help Orient you
to the rest of the course. Now
don't worry, this won't be a
module to tell you what's in all
the other modules. Let's see
what we're about to cover.
Here's a quick overview of what
you'll find in this module of
the course. We'll take a quick
look at Azure as and see some of
the different flavors of Azure
applications. Next you'll get an
overview of Managed
applications, which is a type of
Azure application and it's the
one we'll focus on in this
course.
Finally, we'll see how managed
applications are integrated into
the Azure Marketplace.
Let's kick off with what an
Azure application is. At their
core, Azure Apps are simply a
way to package and deploy your
software solution for your
customers. As you'll come to
understand, throughout this
course, they offer a powerful
deployment architecture. 1
attribute is that it's a way to
package existing software
solutions and it's a deployment
architecture for installing
software to the customers
tenant, not your own. Azure
applications can contain
anything.
In an ARM template can deploy.
If you could deploy a service
fee in an ARM template, you can
include it in your Azure
application. Also, it'll contain
the proprietary software
solution that you've written to
run atop those armed deployed
resources.
For these and other reasons,
publishers often choose Azure
Apps to deploy their solution.
Now there are two types of Azure
as one can create solution
templates and managed
applications.
The biggest difference between
these two Azure application
types is transact ability.
Solution templates are not
transactional in the Azure
Marketplace. This means they
cannot be sold through
Microsoft. This also means that
solution template offers are not
eligible for most marketplace
benefits afforded to Transact
table offers.
Managed applications on the
other hand are transactional.
This means that Microsoft can
sell the solution on your
company's behalf and deploying
managed application offers comes
with many business benefits
which are beyond the scope of
this video now because of their
transact ability. The rest of
this course focuses on managed
applications, so don't expect to
hear too much about solution
template offers that other type
of Azure.
Application.
All right, so let's dig into
managed applications.
Managed apps have some very
unique characteristics. Now, as
we've mentioned, managed apps
are transactional through the
Azure Marketplace and Microsoft
will build the customer on
behalf of the publisher.
Resources deploy into a special
resource group called a Managed
Resource Group, or IMRG, in the
customer's tenant. We'll be
talking a lot about the MRG in
this course, and the fact that
the MRG exists on the customer's
tenant means the customer is
paying for running the Azure
resources that are part of the
solution.
Different deployment models
dictate who will maintain the
solution. Overtime, we can
specify what access rights the
customer and the publisher have
to the MRG. We'll cover this in
much greater depth in the next
module of this course on the
different deployment modes. Now
Speaking of that MRG or managed
resource group, let's have a
look at the managed application
deployment model.
Let's walk through a visual on
what's deployed with a managed
app and how to make the MRG ID
more concrete. When a customer
purchases the managed
application, two things are
deployed into the customer's
tenant under the customer
subscription.
A managed Application instance
is created which essentially
represents the subscription to
the application and I'll find
this on my tenant. If I'm the
customer, I can search for and
find my managed Application
instances that I've purchased
next in a special resource group
called the Managed Resource
Group, the MRG that we've been
talking about.
This contains all of the
resources deployed by the Azure
application and as I said, we'll
visit the MRG over and over
again throughout this course,
what it contains, how the
resources in it are managed, et
cetera. Now you can see that the
MRG has some data storage
services and app service and
even a custom VM in this
particular instance. But as I
said, anything deployable by an
ARM template can be created in
this MRG when deployment of the
managed application occurs.
Depending on how you configure
the application to be managed,
the publisher may have access to
the MRG and its contents.
The same is true for customers
whose configuration to the MRG
and its resources is also
configurable. Thus, customers
may have different types of
access to the MRG. We'll explore
this concept of access modes
again in the next module of this
course, and it's a pretty
important module for you to go
through.
So please don't be tempted to
skip through that one now.
That's the managed application
deployment architecture in a
nutshell.
Managed apps can also be used
internally to an organization or
through the Azure Marketplace.
Let's take a look at those
differences first of all.
One can build managed
applications that are meant to
deploy only within an
organization. Of course, this is
meant to provide managed apps
that are available for
installation within an
organization only. And we use an
Azure service called Service
Catalog to create the managed
apps available inside the
organization. Now as we'll see,
we can use the Service Catalog
service for development of
managed applications in general
during our.
Development process managed as
are also offered for sale to
external customers.
This is done by publishing the
offer inside the Azure
Marketplace. This has nothing to
do with Service Catalog which is
internal only.
This makes the product sellable
and transactional. Now let's
take a moment to learn just a
little bit about the service
catalog and how we might use it.
Let's look at a simple model of
what it means to publish and
deploy an app through the
service catalog. First, a
deployment package file is
created and uploaded to a BLOB
storage account. We're going to
talk a little bit more in a
moment about what goes into this
deployment package file. It's
just a zip file.
That contains certain assets
you're going to need that define
the behavior of your deployment.
Then in the service catalog, we
create an application definition
and that references that
deployment package file.
Finally, we can deploy from that
app definition to create the
actual application. And
remember, this is all happening
internally.
Now, the Service Catalog can be
very useful in the development
of new apps. It gives developers
an opportunity to test out their
deployments before needing to
test in the Azure Marketplace,
which would take longer in
between iterations. So there are
several assets needed to package
and deploy an application. For
example, you'll need an ARM
template. So the first step is
to create these assets that will
deploy your solution, and that's
what goes in to that packaged
file.
That deployment package file
that we were talking about just
a moment ago.
Next, the deployment assets are
loaded into the service catalog.
This makes the solution
available for deployment. Deploy
the a as an internal application
to check the deployment process.
This gives developers an
opportunity to try their
deployment package before
integrating into our formal
offer in the Azure Marketplace.
The basic idea here is that we
can use the service catalog
during our process of building
up our managed application.
Assets that we ultimately will
publish into the marketplace.
We discussed how the Service
Catalog in Azure can be helpful
to our development process, and
it's important to remember that
it's a great tool, but does not
make our application available
as an offer in the Azure
Marketplace.
Now we spent a little time here
on service catalog because it
will be used in labs and in some
later demos, so it's useful to
know what it is.
Now that we've seen a bit about
managed apps and the fact that
we can use them in the context
of a service catalog in Azure,
let's focus on how managed apps
work in the Azure Marketplace.
At the time of this recording,
There are four transactional
offer types one may choose from
when creating offers for the
Azure Marketplace, and these
differ based on deployment
architectures.
Offers that integrate with the
Publisher Software as a service
product architecture our offers.
Container offers allow packaging
your solution into containers
and deploying to the customers.
Azure Kubernetes Service Virtual
Machine Offers allow packaging
solutions onto virtual machines
and deploying those VMS into the
customer's tenant.
Managed applications of course,
which are the focus of this
course. Just know that there are
different deployment models
based on different solution
architecture needs. But all
managed A offers deploy into the
customer's tenant. That's
something to keep in mind.
And you've already seen that
it's deployed into the
customer's tenant. So now let's
see how that works with the
Azure marketplace. Here's a
public marketplace offer that's
been defined and has three
associated plans, Silver, Gold
and Platinum, say just for
example purposes. And when a
customer subscribes to the Gold
plan, for example, the
deployment occurs. The Gold plan
has a deployment package for the
managed app and it deploys the
required elements or services.
Into the customer's tenant into
that MRG. Note that each plan
has its own definition of the
managed A and can therefore
deploy different resources into
an MRG per plan.
So my silver plan might include
a particular database, whereas
my gold plan may include a
different one or none at all.
Each plan has an associated
deployment package that's held
in that zip file. We've talked
about that.
Just a little bit and note that
they associate 2 plans O these
deployment packages contain
artifacts like the ARM template
that does the deployment and the
file that defines the user
interface a customer sees when
subscribing to the offer.
There are some considerations
for how to set U your offer such
that the customer is billed for
the solution.
At the time of this recording,
only monthly billing is
supported for managed
applications. This may change
with time as more billing
options are explored.
For example, annual billing.
That's a possible billing model,
it's just not supported today.
For managed applications today,
a publisher may for example set
the monthly price of the
solution. It's even possible to
set the monthly charge as $0.00.
It also supports metered
billing.
In addition to flat rate
pricing, metered billing is
available on managed apps and
we'll go much deeper into
metered billing later in the
course. But for now, think of
this as billing per transaction.
The managed application can
charge for specific transactions
that take place in the
application. For example, take
the case of a document scanning
service, the solution may charge
some amount per month as a flat
fee and an additional amount per
scan.
One penny, for example. With
these billing capabilities,
publishers can construct
different ways to price their
solutions in the marketplace.
All right, let's have a quick
look at what we talked about in
this module. We got a high level
overview of Azure applications
and saw that there are two types
of them, Solution templates and
managed apps. Managed apps being
the transactional type and
therefore the focus of this
course.
You got an overview of managed
applications to include the
basic deployment architecture
and we saw that we can use
managed apps with the Azure
Marketplace to deliver
transactional solutions to our
customers. This means publishers
can package and sell their
software solutions through the
Azure marketplace using this
very powerful deployment model
and architecture.
Thank you for joining us for
another video from Mastering the
Marketplace, the learning
library where technologists go
to get their offer on the
Microsoft Marketplace.
For more videos, hands on labs,
and sample code, find us at AKA
Ms. Mastering the Marketplace.